docs: Rewriting pages about editors (#2552)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/pages/microsoft-visual-studio-code-open-source-ide.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
:description: Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source IDE
:keywords: user-guide, selecting, IDE, select, selecting, editor, ide, vs-code, visual-studio, visual-studio-code, jetbrains, intellij, pycharm, theia, che-theia
:navtitle: Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source
:page-aliases:

[id="microsoft-visual-studio-code-open-source-ide"]
= Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source IDE

The {prod-short} build of link:https://github.com/microsoft/vscode[Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source] is the default cloud IDE of a new workspace.

> You can have extensions automatically installed in this IDE for workspaces, as explained in the next section, from the xref:administration-guide:extensions-for-microsoft-visual-studio-code-open-source.adoc[Open VSX registry].

Reviewer: Do not refer to 'next', 'previous', etc. parts of the docs. Provide a link if pertinent.

Author: Responding to the above and https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2552#discussion_r1133893251:

I can't provide a link to a procedure module AFAIK. This is a toolchain limitation AFAIK.
If  you know how to do so, please tell me. If not, then I'll welcome an alternative suggestion.

Author: The only thing I can do here is spell out the other section's heading. So I'm not sure what's worse, spelling out a section heading without a URL or saying that it's the next section.

Reviewer: `xref:#adding-vs-code-extensions[]`?

Author: Let me try.

TIP: You can use the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/command-palette[Command Palette] to find and run the commands specified in `devfile.yaml`.

[TIP]
====

You can use *{prod2}* commands by clicking *{prod2}* in the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/status-bar[Status Bar] or finding them through the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/command-palette[Command Palette]:

* *{prod2}: Open Dashboard*
* *{prod2}: Stop Workspace*

> * *{prod2}: Restart Workspace*

Reviewer 2: `Restart Workspace from Local Devfile` action was added to Eclipse Che commands within the PR recently: https://github.com/che-incubator/che-code/pull/185.

I think it makes sense to add the `Restart Workspace from Local Devfile` to this section.
Is it possible to do it within the current PR?
or
Should I create a separate PR for that?

Author: Thank you, Roman. The suggestion is now applied, so I'm resolving this thread.

> * *{prod2}: Restart Workspace*

Author: ```suggestion
* *{prod2}: Restart Workspace*
* *{prod2}: Restart Workspace from Local Devfile*
```

* *{prod2}: Open Documentation*

====

> NOTE: You might see your organization's branding in this IDE if your organization customized it through a branded build.

Reviewer 3: We have an issue to document VS Code for Che specific features https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/21835. It should not be done in this PR. It deserve its own PR. But just FYI.

Author: Thank you for the heads up. I opened [RHDEVDOCS-5026](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-5026) to assign a technical writer when the developers are ready to start preparing more content on this topic.

> NOTE: You might see your organization's branding in this IDE if your organization customized it through a branded build.

Reviewer: This note is superfluous.

Author: It's not what it seems. I added it because it is the only place in the entire docs where we tell readers that they can brand their Che/DS build of VS Code.

:_content-type: CONCEPT
:description: Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source IDE
:keywords: user-guide, selecting, IDE, select, selecting, editor, ide, vs-code, visual-studio, visual-studio-code, jetbrains, intellij, pycharm, theia, che-theia
:navtitle: Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source
:page-aliases:

[id="microsoft-visual-studio-code-open-source-ide"]
= Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source IDE

The {prod-short} build of link:https://github.com/microsoft/vscode[Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source] is the default IDE of a new workspace.

> You can have extensions automatically installed in this IDE for workspaces, as explained in the next section, from the xref:administration-guide:extensions-for-microsoft-visual-studio-code-open-source.adoc[Open VSX registry].

Reviewer 4: I'd get rid of the self-referential bit: "as explained in the next section"

Author: :) I actually don't think that this is self-referential. It's referring to another section. Ideally, I would have named and linked the other section (as we cross-reference other sections elsewhere in the docs), but I don't think it's technically possible here. Moreover, it's just the next section, so this also makes it clear to the reader to just keep reading.

Reviewer 4: Modules should be self-contained, however. If the page layout changes and we move things around, the next section you're referring to might be in a different place.

Reviewer: @deerskindoll is right. Referring to previous, next etc. is not a good idea. Do not assume that the docs are read/used in a sequential manner. Either remove the reference, or use a link.

> TIP: You can use the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/command-palette[Command Palette] to find and run the commands specified in `devfile.yaml`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TIP: Use the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/command-palette[Command Palette] to find and run the commands specified in `devfile.yaml`.
```

Author: Thank you. I'll keep this as `You can` so that it's parallel phrasing to the next tip, which requires `You can`.

> TIP: You can use the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/command-palette[Command Palette] to find and run the commands specified in `devfile.yaml`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TIP: You can use link:https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/tasks[Tasks] to find and run the commands specified in `devfile.yaml`.
```

Author: Perfect! Thank you.

[TIP]
====

> You can use *{prod2}* commands by clicking *{prod2}* in the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/status-bar[Status Bar] or finding them through the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/command-palette[Command Palette]:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use *{prod2}* commands by clicking *{prod2}* in the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/status-bar[Status Bar] or find them through the link:https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/command-palette[Command Palette]:
```

Author: :) Thank you, but I'd rather stick with `you can` here because that's not the only way users can use these commands.

* *{prod2}: Open Dashboard*
* *{prod2}: Stop Workspace*
* *{prod2}: Restart Workspace*
* *{prod2}: Restart Workspace from Local Devfile*
* *{prod2}: Open Documentation*

====

> NOTE: You might see your organization's branding in this IDE if your organization customized it through a branded build.

Reviewer 4: Which IDE is the tip referring to? Whichever one the org uses?

Author: :) Good question, and the answer is "this IDE" means "VS Code" because the title of this page is "Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source IDE" (this whole page is about it). So instead of writing "Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source IDE" every time when I need to mention VS Code, I become a minimalist and write "this IDE". Though credit must be given to Nick for this idea.
